Temporal Nexus: References Events (#3152)
temporalio/documentation: docs/references/events.mdx

| workflow_task_completed_event_id | The `WORKFLOW_TASK_COMPLETED` event that the corresponding ScheduleNexusOperation command was reported with.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| request_id                       | A unique ID generated by the History Service upon creation of this event. The ID will be transmitted with all Nexus StartOperation requests and is used as an idempotency key.                                                                                                                            |
| endpoint_id                      | Endpoint ID as resolved in the endpoint registry at the time this event was generated. This is stored on the event and used internally by the server in case the endpoint is renamed from the time the event was originally scheduled.                                                                    |

### NexusOperationStarted

This Event type indicates that an Nexus Operation Execution was started.

> The handler’s SDK Worker picked up the Nexus Operation and started processing the Nexus Operation invocation.

Reviewer: `NexusOperationStarted` only happens for Async Nexus Operations.

As above, there may be multiple types of handler in the future, so would either remove this sentence, or frame this from the context of the caller workflow event history.

```suggestion
This event is added to the caller's workflow history for Asynchronous Nexus Operations, for example one that is picked up by a handler's SDK client and started by a Nexus handler.
This event is not added to the caller's Workflow history for Synchronous Nexus Operations, since they transition directly to [NexusOperationCompleted](#nexusoperationcompleted) or another final state such as [NexusOperationFailed](#nexusoperationfailed) when the response is provided synchronously by the Nexus handler.
```

| Field              | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the `NEXUS_OPERATION_SCHEDULED` event this task corresponds to.                                                                   |
| operation_id       | The operation ID returned by the Nexus handler in the response to the StartOperation request. This ID is used when canceling the operation. |
| request_id         | The request ID allocated at schedule time.                                                                                                  |

### NexusOperationCompleted

This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has completed.

> The handler’s SDK client has picked up and successfully completed the Nexus Operation.

Reviewer: See comments above re: sync vs. async Nexus ops. This event can happen either:
a) Sync Nexus Op: after single Nexus request/reply between caller and handler Nexus machinery
b) Async Nexus Op: after (a) Nexus start operation request -> (b) started -> (c) completed async

```suggestion
The caller's workflow history records the result of a successful Nexus Operation with this event for synchronous and asynchronous Nexus Operations. 
```

This Event type contains Nexus Operation Execution results.

| Field              | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the `NEXUS_OPERATION_SCHEDULED` event. Uniquely identifies this operation.                                                                                 |
| result             | Serialized result of the Nexus operation. The response of the Nexus handler. Delivered either via a completion callback or as a response to a synchronous operation. |
| request_id         | The request ID allocated at schedule time.                                                                                                                           |

### NexusOperationFailed

This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has failed.

> The handler’s SDK client picked up the Nexus Operation but unsuccessfully completed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The caller's workflow history records a failed Nexus Operation with this event both for synchronous and asynchronous Nexus Operations.
For example, when an SDK client picks up a Nexus Operation and the Nexus handler responds synchronously with a non-retryable error.
For example, when an SDK client picks up a Nexus Operation, the Nexus handler asynchronously starts an underlying Workflow, which subsequently results in [WorkflowExecutionFailed](#workflowexecutionfailed).
```

| workflow_task_completed_event_id | The ID of the [WorkflowTaskCompleted](#workflowtaskcompleted) event that the corresponding ScheduleNexusOperation command was reported with.                                                                                                                                                              |
| request_id                       | A unique ID generated by the History Service upon creation of this event. The ID will be transmitted with all Nexus StartOperation requests and is used as an idempotency key.                                                                                                                            |
| endpoint_id                      | Endpoint ID as resolved in the endpoint registry at the time this event was generated. This is stored on the event and used internally by the server in case the endpoint is renamed from the time the event was originally scheduled.                                                                    |

### NexusOperationStarted

> This Event type indicates that an Nexus Operation Execution was started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type indicates that a Nexus Operation Execution was started.
```

> This event is added to the caller's workflow history for Asynchronous Nexus Operations, for example one that is picked up by a handler's SDK client and started by a Nexus handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event is added to the caller's Workflow History for Asynchronous Nexus Operations, for example ones that are backed by a Workflow.
```

The event is not added to the caller's Workflow history for Synchronous Nexus Operations, since they transition directly to [NexusOperationCompleted](#nexusoperationcompleted) or another final state such as [NexusOperationFailed](#nexusoperationfailed) when the response is provided synchronously by the Nexus handler.

| Field              | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the [NexusOperationScheduled](#nexusoperationscheduled) event this task corresponds to.                                           |
| operation_id       | The operation ID returned by the Nexus handler in the response to the StartOperation request. This ID is used when canceling the operation. |
| request_id         | The request ID allocated at schedule time.                                                                                                  |

### NexusOperationCompleted

> This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has completed successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type indicates that a Nexus Operation has completed successfully.
```

> The caller's workflow history records the result of a successful Nexus Operation with this event for synchronous and asynchronous Nexus Operations.

Reviewer 2: Please capitalize the proper nouns here and everywhere else.

> This Event type contains Nexus Operation Execution results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type contains Nexus Operation result.
```

| Field              | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the [NexusOperationScheduled](#nexusoperationscheduled)` event. Uniquely identifies this operation.                                                        |
| result             | Serialized result of the Nexus operation. The response of the Nexus handler. Delivered either via a completion callback or as a response to a synchronous operation. |
| request_id         | The request ID allocated at schedule time.                                                                                                                           |

### NexusOperationFailed

> This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type indicates that a Nexus Operation has failed.
```

The caller's workflow history records a failed Nexus Operation with this event both for synchronous and asynchronous Nexus Operations.

> For example, when an SDK client picks up a Nexus Operation and the Nexus handler responds synchronously with a non-retryable error.

Reviewer 2: SDK client is a wrong term here. This may be a bit more readable.

```suggestion
For example, when a Nexus Handler responds synchronously with a non-retryable error or when a Workflow  that backs an Operation fails, resulting in a [WorkflowExecutionFailed](#workflowexecutionfailed) event.
```

When an SDK client picks up a Nexus Operation, the Nexus handler asynchronously starts an underlying Workflow, which subsequently results in [WorkflowExecutionFailed](#workflowexecutionfailed).

> This Event type contains Nexus Operation Execution errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type contains a Nexus Operation failure.
```

| Field              | Description                                                                                                   |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the [NexusOperationScheduled](#nexusoperationscheduled)` event. Uniquely identifies this operation. |
| failure            | Failure details. A NexusOperationFailureInfo wrapping an ApplicationFailureInfo.                              |
| request_id         | The request ID allocated at schedule time.                                                                    |

### NexusOperationTimedOut

This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has timed out according to the Temporal Server, due to one of these Nexus Operation timeouts: Schedule-to-Close Timeout.
| Field | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| scheduled_event_id | The ID of the [NexusOperationScheduled](#nexusoperationscheduled)` event. Uniquely identifies this operation. |
| failure | Failure details. A NexusOperationFailureInfo wrapping a CanceledFailureInfo. |

> | request_id | The request ID allocated at schedule time. |

Reviewer 2: Fix formatting.

### NexusOperationCancelRequested

> This Event type indicates that a request to cancel the Nexus Operation has occurred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type indicates that the Workflow that scheduled a Nexus Operation requested to cancel it.
```

| Field | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| scheduled_event_id | The id of the [NexusOperationScheduled](#nexusoperationscheduled)` event this cancel request corresponds to. |
| workflow_task_completed_event_id | The [WorkflowTaskCompleted](#workflowtaskcompleted) event that the corresponding RequestCancelNexusOperation command was reported with. |

### NexusOperationCanceled

> This Event type indicates that the Nexus Operation has been canceled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Event type indicates that a Nexus Operation has resolved as canceled.
```
